---
title: Break the vicious circle of anxious thought cycle before results
date: 2019-08-04 16:20:00 
categories:
- General
tags:
- students
layout: post
author: shan
image: https://i.ibb.co/QrWFhqM/Depression.jpg
description: CA Final May 2019 and CA IPCC May 2019 results will be out anytime soon. It's a very stressful time for students.
featured: true
hidden: false
comments: true
---
<p style="text-align: justify;">CA Final May 2019 and CA IPCC May 2019 results will be out anytime soon. It&#39;s a very stressful time for students. Waiting for results is even more stressful than preparing for exams. Students spend most of their time predicting their results and fear the worst that could happen. Each one of you has put hard efforts, while some of you might be able to make it some of you would not. And keeping in mind the nature of the curriculum and the past trend analysis it&#39;s quite evident that the number of students who pass is always less than the number of students who fail in the exams. Don&#39;t worry I have no intention to add to your anxiety. Let us together try to break through this vicious cycle of thoughts that you encounter while waiting for your result.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The one thought that scares you the most before your result is, &#39;What if I am not able to make it?&#39; and this one thought occupies the major portion of your mind. You start pondering about it so much that it starts costing you your peace. What you all need to understand here is that there is a huge difference between worrying and caring. What most of you do is worry about your result that is you fear it and fear never leads to action it simply intensifies your tension. On the other hand, caring about your result means being aware of the possible outcomes and figuring out a way to deal with it rather than being scared of it. I came across a very wise thought while surfing the internet one day. It read, <b>&#39;Life would be much easier if instead of asking questions we start looking for answers.&#39;</b> So once you shift your focus from worrying to caring you&#39;ll realize that there is only one answer to your question, &#39;What if I am not able to make it&#39; i.e. &#39;Next Attempt&#39;. Failure is a bitter pill to swallow. Some of you might have never experienced it before, some you might have to taste it again. But remember that there is always a next time and your institute has put no constraints on the number of attempts you can take. You always have the chance to turn those 4 letters &#39;FAIL&#39; into &#39;PASS&#39;.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">However, easier said than done, the fear is not only about failing but also about facing the world thereafter. Your mind will never fail to imagine all the possible repercussions that you might have to face after failure. Say, how my parents are going to react?, how will I face my friends?, how will I manage to prepare for my next attempt? and what not? The worst part is some of you start doubting your capabilities. When you see your other friends passing you start comparing yourself to them and start wondering if CA is your cup of tea. It especially happens with those students who have already given a couple of attempts. To them I would want to convey this message that everyone is running a different race, you can&#39;t live your life comparing yourself with others. The only person you should be comparing yourself with is &#39;You&#39;. I once heard a Youtuber say these magical words, <b>&#39;Someone graduated at the age of 22, but waited for 5 years before securing a job. Someone became a CEO at 25 and died at 50. While another became a CEO at 50 and lived to 90 years. Obama retired at 55, but Trump started at 70. Everyone in this world works based on their time zone. People around you might seem to go ahead of you, while some might seem to be behind you. But everyone is running their RACE, in their own TIME. Do not envy them. They are in their time zone, and you are in yours. So, relax and work harder. You are not late, you are not early. You are very much on time.&#39;</b> So even if it takes you a little longer than anyone else it&#39;s absolutely okay, do not let anything/anyone doubt yourself but of course, try to learn from your mistakes to become a better you.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">So the above portion of the article is for those students who really dream of adding those two letters before their name, those who feel these two letters will give them a new identity to their name. But like I said everyone is running a different race. Let me now address those bunch of students who always keep thinking, how they ended up pursuing this course in the first place and those bunch of students who are suffering holding on.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">It&#39;s very important to stay positive and keep trying but it&#39;s also important to understand that your efforts will give you results only when they are put in the right place. Your career should be solely your choice and not somebody else&#39;s. If you are doing this course because your parents want you to become a CA or because you blindly followed your friends when you didn&#39;t have clarity about your career and your efforts are not paying off, they never will. <b>Quitting is not an option but switching is.</b> You should channel all your energy into something where your heart lies. And there is no harm in being prepared for the worst and having a Plan B. Because working without a plan is equally dangerous as not working. There are numerous ways to become successful and CA is just one of them.&nbsp; If the course doesn&#39;t interest you or you feel you can perform better somewhere else there is no harm in looking for other options (which I&#39;ll be discussing in my next article.) But make sure that doing so you are not trying to escape failure but just finding an alternate way to deal with it.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><b>It is brave to dive into the sea of opportunities but it&#39;s stupid not to carry a life jacket when you know there are possibilities of drowning.</b></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">I hope this article will help you shift your focus from worrying about your result to caring about your result. All the best to all CA Final and CA IPCC students:)</p>

